Now with the tabs added We're missing content in the favorite screen.
Now we don't really have functionality to add favorites yet if we click that star icon that doesn't
do anything.
And by the way I'm aware that we're missing content here as well.
We'll add this later.
So click on the star icon doesn't do anything yet and we'll only be able to make that do something a
bit later.
Still I want to populate this favorite screen a little bit more at least with some dummy meals we're
loading there let's say.
And at least with the functionality to also go to the meal detailed screen there because in the end
the idea here is that we have a list of meals here just as we have it here.
After we select that category that we can tab on a meal to go to the details page just as we can do
it in the meals Navigator.
So in the meals stack navigator I should say and therefore in the end what we need for favorites for
our favorites tab is not a single screen but in numbers stack a stack for our favorites feature in his
application.
That's what we need here.
This will then by the way also give us a header which we're currently also missing.
Of course that's not too hard to implement.
We can simply create a numbers stack navigator above our tap screen contact maybe and this will set
up the stack Navigator for our favorites stack.
So the object we pass here has to define all the screens you want to have in that stack.
And that would be the favorites screen itself with the list of our favorite meals.
And they I want to point at favorites screen and then I want to have a meal detail and I'll point at
meal detailed screen and we're already using the meal detailed screen here in our meals navigator in
our Amber stack navigator.
But that's totally fine.
You can use one and the same screen in different stack navigators.
There's nothing wrong with that.
So we can use meal detailed screen here in the favorites stack Navigator as well and now I just want
to make sure that I also copy my options here my default navigation options.
This second argument actually for a create stack navigator for the meals navigator to my favorites stack
Navigator as well.
So here as a second argument to create stack navigator I copy in that object where I set up my detailed
navigation options so that for this stack I have the same defaults I have the same hairstyle and therefore
of course we can also cut this from here and remove this from here and store a debt default setting
in a constant here maybe our default stack nav options that's this object which sets up the header style
we can then use the default stack nav options here in our meals navigator stack.
And also here in our favorites stack navigator and all the stored is in the FAF navigator constant of
course you can name this constant whatever you want.
Now it's that fat Navigator.
So that created stack Navigator a component in the end which I want to use in my tap screen config there
for meals we were already using a stack Navigator for favorites I was using the favorite screen and
this now has to change.
This note should be the fat navigator so that here we all use a stack instead of a single screen.
And with that already if we go to favorites we have our title here at least we have a header which already
proves that we're using stack navigated here.
Now of course a screen is not really that useful not something I want to say here.
So I want to set specific navigation options for to favorite screen and we can either use stood here
when we create the favorites stack navigator with the longer form where we set up screen and the navigation
options for that screen here or we do it directly in our component.
That's what it did thus far.
That's what I'll do here as well.
There we can set up favorite screen dot navigation options like this.
Use the object here.
We don't need to function because all not derived name dynamically here and in the navigation options
here I simply will set the header title to your favorites and of course you can pick any text you want
here.
And if we now save that now we see our custom title here which is a bit better.
Now as I said we don't really have the tools yet to store meals as favorites.
That's something we'll do in a in a while.
So for now I just want to display some dummy meals here.
Let's say the meals with the idea M1 and M2 simply two dummy meals.
And for that we can go to the favorite screen and instead of displaying this view here in the end I
want to display the same as in the category meals screen right.
I want to render a flat list which then renders my meal items here.
The only difference is which meals I render.
Dad logic will not be the same because that's different for my favorite screen.
This however will be the same and since I will reuse that list creation logic and the only thing that
differs is the data which I render it would make sense to outsource this list into a separate component
so that we can reuse that component in the category meals screen and into favorites screen.
So in the components folder I'll add a meal list J.S. fall and in there I want to have a react component
so import react from react and we'll all need to import flat list from react native and we'll also need
to import style sheet from react native of course.
And then here we can create our meal list component where we get props and we export that as a default
thereafter.
We'll also need some styles so we can already add styles she'd create here like this and now I want
to move over my list logic from category meal screen into this new component so all a cut doesn't ha
J is X code which I return here in category meal screen and moved it here and return it in in meal list
in the meal list component.
So now here I will return that view.
Therefore we also need to import the view here of course that also means we have to bring over the look.
So here is screen style can also be cut from category meals and therefore here we don't need a style
sheet anymore.
We can get rid of the style sheet import as well.
We can actually get rid of all react native imports because we have no react native specific component
in here anymore and instead moved out to meal list so they're and histology I can add this screen which
I just removed and a more fitting name therefore probably is lists all renamed us.
Technically you don't have to rename it but it makes sense because this is now not a screen component
anymore it's just rendering a list which then happens to be the only part on our screen but that's a
different story so I'll just named as list have my flat list in there.
They'll of course displayed meals which I want to render that won't work anymore.
Instead I simply expect to get some data from my props here maybe name it list data you can choose any
name you want here of course and render meal item that's all the missing for Dad and the category meals
we can cut.
Cuts this render meal item constant here.
Cut it from the category meals screen and move Dad into our meal list as well.
So they're in the meal list component.
I'll add this constant which holsters render meal item function which has everything it needs to work
except for one thing the meal item import is missing.
So we need to import meal item from DOD slash meal items so from the meal item component when everything
will be missing here in the Middle East component as well.
And that will be the navigation prop because as I mentioned the navigation prop is only available in
components that are loaded with the help of navigator by react navigation and only in that component
not in nested components.
So the thing is category meals is the component where loading with the help of the navigator.
And if we then use to me a list in there which we'll do in a second.
The meal list will not have access to proper navigation only the directly loaded component has access
but that will be an issue that's easy to solve.
First of all however let's import meal list here from the meal list component and let's return meal
list here in the category meals component and now meal list of course needs stat list data prop which
we're working with.
So let's pass in list data and that should simply point at the array we want to render which in this
case is displayed.
Meals and now as I mentioned will have a problem with the navigation prop.
Well we can just forwarded though we can use navigation at such a prop here to meal list and forward
props navigation.
That is how easy we can forward this to the meal list.
So now in the meal list in that component will have a navigation prop again because we are forwarding
it we're adding our own navigation prop and we're pointing at the data we get on the navigation prop
provided by react navigation.
That's how we have access to it again.
Here and with that we should have a setup that works.
So that should be our category meals screen let's save it and let's ignore the favorite screen for the
moment and just see that our stack navigator here still works and it seems to do that.
If I test that that definitely still works here as it was before now let's make sure we all used as
in the favorite screen.
So here on the favorite screen we don't need to import anything from react native.
Instead we just need to import to me a list component we just created from components and then meal
list and simply return meal list.
And now the difference to the category meal screen where we all return your list is of course the data
we want to render.
The logic for deriving that data.
That's the difference.
And no difference between the components is of course our navigation option setup and the header title
we're setting.
We can't get rid of the stalls you'd here we don't need that anymore here the favorite screen and now
the data I want to render.
Well that depends on my meals.
So we'll import meals
from now from the dummy data J.S. file and as I mentioned here since we have no real way of setting
favorites I'll just use some some dummy favorites which I come up with.
So here my favorite meals that could be my meals array and there I want to filter for two specific meals
so I'll have a look at every single meal.
But I only return true if meal idea is equal to M one or if meal I.D. is equal to Amcu.
And that's of course just some dummy logic so did we have something here.
We'll replace this later once we really know how to manage our state and how to manage the currently
set favorites.
Now to me a list to our component here we can forward the list data prop again which we need in there
so we can forward list data and set us equal to fast meals just like that.
So now we should have some favorites as well.
And we do we got two favorites.
However if I click on it we get on the find is not an object where we try to call props navigation navigate
and yeah the problem of course is that in the meal list as I mentioned reusing the navigation prop and
that's only available in the component that is directly loaded through a navigator.
So in this case that's the favorite screen and in category meals we solve this by forwarding the navigation
prop of course we need to do the very same thing here for our favorite screen.
So we need to provide that navigation prop here on me list and forward props navigation so that that
navigation prop with the navigate method is available in the meal list component as well.
Now with Dad if we go to favorites we are indeed able to go to the detailed screen.
So this is working that's pretty decent pretty nice as you see these two stack navigators all the work
independent of each other.
We can be on the detailed screen in both stacks separately here I'm on the detail screen of the Selman
in the meals tab and I can go to the toast to y detailed screen in the favorites tab can go back here
and the meals tab and I'm still on it hosts the Y details page here in the favorites stack.
So these two stacks were separate from each other.
Totally independent and that's how it should be.
And this is how we can reuse some logic and how we can have different stacks merged into one and the
same tab navigator.
And even though some logic is still missing the logic to really add favorites.
This is a huge step forward and hopefully shows you the power of rack navigation and how to set up this
common navigation pattern where you have taps and then different nested stacks one navigation pattern
is missing which I want to show you.
And that's a side draw.